---
layout: project
title: Reddit
published: true
description: How can we improve the Reddit community experience?

cover-height: 20em
cover-color: rgb(206,227,248)
cover-scheme: dark
cover-image: reddit-cover.png
---

<section class="cf ph3 ph5-ns pb5 bg-yellow black-70">

  <div class="mw9 center">

    <h1 class="fl w-100 mt5 f5 ttu tracked fw6" id="l1-history">History</h1>


    <div class="cf">
      <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2" id="l2-the-rise-of-the-forum">The Rise of the Forum</h3>
      <article class="pv2 fl w-100 w-50-l" id="rise">
        <p class="xp1">There are many objects we find in our homes and offices and, albeit in a slightly different form, on our computers—desktops, windows, bookmarks, folders, pens, scissors, paste, and pins. They are interface metaphors and old friends who help us feel at home in front of our computers. An interface metaphor  transposes the user’s conceptual model of the physical artifact to the digital one. The user’s experiences with and expectations of a physical artifact render an unfamiliar technology familiar. Metaphors have more than an a posteriori purpose of conferring familiarity upon the unfamiliar. Early modern computing presented a blank slate to technologists, and they used generative metaphors to conceive tools that could be shared and adopted with ease.</p>

        <p class="xp1">The humble bulletin board, surfaced in cork, is one such metaphor. Bulletin boards are public media for impersonal communication often within a community. Any community member can view or post announcements, advertisements, and other messages. In the 70s and 80s, the bulletin board crossed the physical-digital divide as the bulletin board system, or BBS, to live in a mainframe and over ARPANET, the precursor to the Internet. The user could view and post to the BBS like they would to a physical one. Furthermore, a user could reply directly to a posting. Replies would be chronologically ordered into a thread of messages, archived, and made publicly viewable—a thread essentially is an asynchronous public conversation.</p>

        <p class="xp1">In the 90s, the Internet matured and moved out of academic, government and military research installations and into civilian homes. No longer restricted to a relative handful of researchers, the Internet began to make inroads through global society. In 1990, there were 0.5 internet users per 100 people; by the end of the decade, that ratio increased to 6.77 users per 100 people. Commercial and personal web content proliferated. Web directories then search engines (AltaVista, Ask Jeeves, Google, Lycos, Yahoo) emerged to weave the digital deluge into a navigable world wide web. The information highways were laid and paved, and droves of pioneering Internet users sought out their new virtual homesteads and communities. BBSes matured and became the dominant web social spaces. They became known as “forums” and flourished. There were forums for expecting parents, avid gamers, hobbyists, cancer survivors, gearheads, and every other demographic, forming a constellation of niches that reflected the diversity and richness of our newly connected society.</p>
      </article>
      <article class="pv2 fl w-100 w-50-l" id="timeline">
        <svg class="w-100 h-100">
        </svg>
      </article>
    </div>
    <div class="cf">
    <article class="fr pv2 w-100 w-50-l pr0 pr2-l">
      <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2" id="l2-the-rise-of-news-aggregation">The Rise of News Aggregation</h3>

      <p class="xp1">In 1994, the World Wide Web Consortium, or W3C, was established with web technology standardization as its mission. In 1996, the W3C finalized the design of the eXtensible Markup Language, or XML, a schema for encoding data structures for portability between web applications. XML became the basis of standardized data exchange markup languages: molecular data, patient data, vector data, and other data types. Introduced in 1999, XML-based Rich Sivte Summary, or RSS, is a family of web feed formats for syndicating news articles and their metadata. Its success was not immediate, but its ubiquity was inevitable.</p>

      <p class="xp1">At the turn of the millennium, the Web 2.0 movement was underway. Progressive developers rallied around web standards, accessibility, dynamic content, and scalability. Major blog platforms like WordPress, Blogger, and Xanga and news websites adopted RSS feeds to syndicate content. With news being syndicated in a standardized format, it became technically feasible to dynamically compose formerly disparate news streams into a single one. The capability to create personalized or curated newsfeeds became commercially available through RSS feed readers and non-social news aggregators.</p>

      <p class="xp1">The Web 1.0 content ecosystem, excluding forums, was characterized by a unidirectional flow of static content from webmasters to site visitors. The Web 2.0 movement, seeking to make content flow bidirectional, adopted user participation as a core tenet and advocated the idea that users, instead of being passive content consumers, should be able to contribute comments, images, and videos to websites. Webpages would become not only dynamic but social, too.</p>

      <p class="xp1">The rise of news aggregation, first enabled by the standardization of content syndication, and simultaneously that of the social web were to intersect inevitably. Their intersection resulted in the emergence of social news aggregators, which differ from their progenitors, non-social news aggregators, on content procurement. Non-social news aggregators stream and sometimes staff-curate content from multiple RSS feeds. In contrast, social news aggregators crowdsource their content: users submit, discuss, and collaboratively rank links to news articles, images, and videos.</p>
    </article>
    </div>

    <article class="fr pv2 w-100 pr0 pr2-l">
      <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2" id="l2-the-reign-of-digg">The Reign of Digg</h3>

      <p class="xp1">Digg was launched in 2004 as a social news aggregation website. It became one of the most visited websites, receiving 29.1 million unique monthly visitors in January 2010, and once had a valuation of more than $160 million. (Walker 2012). Being linked to on the front page of Digg was a privilege coveted but dreaded: the torrent of visitors from Diggs could easily crash a web server. This phenomenon was coined the “Slashdot Effect”, but became known as the “Digg Effect” during Digg’s reign as the top news aggregator. At its height, Digg seemed indomitable as the kingmaker of websites. To borrow Ursula Le Guin’s words: its power seemed inescapable.</p>


      <p class="xp1">But then, so did the divine right of kings. Within a single month in late 2010, Digg lost a third of its visitors and continued hemorrhaging. In July 2012, Digg sold for $500,000, a measly third of a single percent of its former valuation, to Betaworks, a New York City-based venture capital firm. Such a pronounced devaluation effectively was a public obituary: Digg, 7, passed away on Thursday, July 12th, 2012. What happened? What went rotten in the state of Digg-mark?</p>

      <p class="xp1">The relevancy of Digg began a slow decline in late 2007. In a gambit to refresh its format and rebuild relevancy, Digg launched its controversial “v4” update in 2010. The update introduced fundamental changes to the website. And the changes it brought were sweeping. Prior to v4, users could selectively collapse branches of the comment thread, which was loaded fully expanded, to make it more readable and navigable. The v4 update made replies to top-level comments collapsed by default, inadvertently suppressing discussion because, for casual visitors who skim through comments, top-level comments get the first and last word on any matter.</p>

      <p class="xp1">The model, in the Digg team’s estimation, was insufficient. To create a new model, Digg combined the social and nonsocial news aggregation models so that content is sourced from both crowds and publisher web syndication channels. Official publisher profiles were introduced for media companies, brands, and other organizations so they could automatically submit content directly from their RSS feeds. Although directly submitted articles were not pushed to the front page, they were prioritized for users who followed the publisher profiles. Publisher-submitted articles, ballooned by the significant momentum of upvotes by following users, often ended up featured among top stories. Many users were upset by the overwhelming intrusion of mainstream publisher and branded content into their newsfeeds. Furthermore, they were disarmed from lashing back. In v4, the downvote, or “bury”, in Digg site jargon, feature was disabled, and discontent users were left unable to downvote offending content into oblivion.</p>

      <p class="xp1">With publisher direct content, Digg began to move toward aggregation of mainstream news, a territory fraught with rising powers like Facebook and Twitter. (Metz 2012). Facebook launched Pages on November 7th, 2007. With Pages, publishers can post articles and links that will appear on the newsfeeds of their followers. Like official Digg profiles, Facebook Pages gave publishers a direct channel to submit content instead of relying on users to share content from the publishers’ websites.</p>
    </article>

    <div class="cf">
    <article class="fr pv2 w-100 w-50-l pr0 pr2-l">
      <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2" id="l2-the-rise-of-reddit">The Rise of Reddit</h3>

      <p class="xp1">Incubated by Y Combinator, Reddit was founded in 2005 by Steve Huffman and Alexis Ohanian, and the site quickly found attention. A year and a half later, it was purchased by Condé Nast for between $10 million to $20 million. (Inc) Despite its remarkable success as a young site, for years Reddit was overshadowed by the then-dominant news aggregator Digg. In late 2010, Reddit’s breakthrough came in the form of the Digg v4 update that caused Digg users to revolt and defect en masse to Reddit and other social news aggregation sites. The fortune of Reddit was swiftly purchased with the misfortune of Digg. Today, Reddit is one of the world’s most visited websites.</p>

      <p class="xp1">The Reddit model is a hybrid of the social news aggregation and forum models, accommodating both news and non-news content. The website is a loose confederation of subreddits, each of which is functionally a forum where users can submit and comment on links to news, images, videos, and other web pages, and, unlike on a social news aggregator, text posts. Although the ability for users to submit text posts may seem an insignificant feature, it greatly expands the possibilities of subreddits beyond being mere topic containers.</p>

      <p class="xp1">Being content-versatile, user-created and user-moderated, and thus user-purposed, subreddits form a diverse virtual landscape. According to redditmetrics.com, there are 959,482 subreddits covering dedicated topics from VR physics to Pokemon Go.</p>

      <p class="xp1">The decentralized democratic Reddit model enabled the website to expand rapidly. Users, without need for authorization by the Reddit team, can conquer new content territory as they see fit. If there’s no subreddit dedicated to discussion about blind archery, then one can be created. Since subreddits are user-created, user-moderated, and thus user-purposed, they can be malicious.</p>
    </article>
    </div>

  </div>

</section>

<section class="cf ph3 ph5-ns pb5 bg-washed-blue black-70">

  <div class="mw9 center">
    <h1 class="fl w-100 mt5 f5 ttu tracked fw6">Research</h1>
    <article class="pv2 fl w-100">

      <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2">Survey</h3>

      <p class="xp1">Subreddit /r/redditdata conducted a <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/u/1/d/1QJBPZt0oa3UCkL6QGBHp6vITXs3f1bYcCyA5xIQcFZw/pub">survey in March 2015</a> that received 16,817 responses from users across 100 different subreddits and 175 different countries.</p>

      <p class="xp1">While content on Reddit is great, its community doesn’t measure up: 86% of respondents were satisfied with the site content, but only 67% were satisfied with the community while 13% were dissatisfied.</p>

      <p class="xp1">The community doesn’t measure up for female users: female respondents were twice as likely as male respondents to be dissatisfied with the Reddit community (20% vs. 12%).</p>

      <p class="xp1">Respondents expressed “concern about an increasingly negative and unsafe community environment.” Out of the respondents who wouldn’t recommend Reddit, 50% “cited hateful or offensive content as the reason why.”</p>
    </article>
    <article class="pv2 fl w-100">

        <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2">Trolling</h3>

        <p class="xp1">The contemporary use of the term “trolling” originated in the late 1980s from Usenet where it denoted a user who intentionally disrupts online communities. But trolling is no longer confined to obscure message boards. It has entered into the cultural mainstream and Reddit. Its use has since expanded to cover many types of virtual mischief and malice and become an increasingly nebulous term to pin down.</p>

        <p class="xp1">"Trolling is a game about identity deception, albeit one that is played without the consent of most of the players. The troll attempts to pass as a legitimate participant, sharing the group's common interests and concerns; the newsgroup members, if they are cognizant of trolls and other identity deceptions, attempt to both distinguish real from trolling postings and, upon judging a poster to be a troll, make the offending poster leave the group. Their success at the former depends on how well they - and the troll - understand identity cues; their success at the latter depends on whether the troll's enjoyment is sufficiently diminished or outweighed by the costs imposed by the group." (Judith Donath)</p>

        <p class="xp1">From the perspective of the virtual community-building enterprise Reddit, trolling harms the cohesion and mutual trust of its communities and, by extension, its brand. At its core, trolling is an antisocial behavior.</p>
    </article>
    <article class="pv2 fl w-100">

        <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2">Examples</h3>

        <p class="xp1">From the perspective of the virtual community-building enterprise Reddit, trolling harms the cohesion and mutual trust of its communities and, by extension, its brand. At its core, trolling is an antisocial behavior.Redditor /u/LE_TROLLFACEDXD admits to intentional trolling: he disingenuously misattributed a false statement to Jack Black and posted it to /r/GetMotivated. The community, assuming he was a genuine participant, engaged the post as if it were serious and debunked it. Significant community energy was wasted, community reputation is slightly hurt, and community cohesion is weakened.</p>

        <p class="xp1">From the perspective of the virtual community-building enterprise Reddit, trolling harms the cohesion and mutual trust of its communities and, by extension, its brand. At its core, trolling is an antisocial behavior.On the University of Illinois subreddit, /r/UIUC, people often post about poor experiences with a shuttle service called Suburban Express. Its owner, Dennis Toeppen, earned notoriety for his Reddit trolling. He used throwaway accounts to troll users who complain about his company or to astroturf support. However, his efforts yield little success because his attempts are quickly detected and called out by the community. His accounts have telltale characteristics: lack of deep comment history neither in the /r/UIUC subreddit nor the broader Reddit community, any comments are posted to Suburban Express-related threads, and those comments are universally antagonistic.</p>
    </article>

  </div>
</section>

<section class="cf ph3 ph5-ns pb5 bg-white black-70">

  <div class="mw9 center">

    <h1 class="fl w-100 mt5 f5 ttu tracked fw6">Precedents</h1>

    <article class="pv2 fl w-100">
      <h3 class="f6 ttu fw6 mb0 mt5 bb pb2">Quora</h3>

      <p class="xp1">Quora is a question and answer website that counts tech luminaries like Sheryl Sandberg, Mark Zuckerberg, and Jimmy Wales among its users. Its focus is equally split between users and content. A well-written, insightful answer is insufficient; a writer’s credentials and reputation imbues their answer with credibility and meaningfulness.</p>

      <p class="xp1">The names and identities of Quora users are displayed above their posts. A blue checkmark on a user’s profile image indicates that the user’s identity is verified by Quora. This feature is not applicable to this project because anonymity is central to Reddit.</p>

      <p class="xp1">Alongside a posting user’s name is information about the user and their post in context to the subject matter and the reader:</p>
    </article>

</div>

</section>
